---
layout: post
title: Autumn
tags: life nature raspi
---

Fall is in the air!

Fall is probably my favorite season. Kind of weird to have a favorite season, or to feel about it
so strongly, but there you go.

- It's nice and cool, but not horribly cold and dry like the winter.
- Yellow is my favorite color.
- Autumnal scents are nice. I love the smell of leaves and pumpkin pie and all.
- I guess I associate it with being back in school and being able to see my friends. Plus my dad would be
  out of the house more anyways cause he was a plumber and people's pipes would be bursting all the time
  once it got colder.

Speaking of my folks I called them the other day. They look antsy somehow. Like I was sitting on a giant
secret they wanted me to tell them. So weird ... I can't think of what they want to know.

I guess they do always want to know everything I'm up to, but I never really want to tell them for some reason...
I don't know why.

Maybe that's why I'm so bad at sharing about myself and making friends, some kind of weird aversion to talking about
myself.

---

I suppose that's all that's on my mind at the moment. I kinda abandoned this blog for half a month, so I figured I
would post *something*.

More BCI stuff is forthcoming. I've been saving up some money and I've decided to buy one of those BCI devkit things.
It's just some little ceramic discs you stick on your scalp and a small amplifier circuit. My parents won't like
me spending that much money but it's really not that expensive and it's my money I guess.

For the processing I think I'll use a Raspberry Pi. I have one sitting around somewhere. I've never actually used the
GPIO pins before, so that will be fun.

So yeah. Next post will be about me wrestling with that.

Ugh, I'm gonna have to cut my hair.
