---
layout: post
title: IT WORKS
tags: bci
---

I GOT IT HOOKED UP AND I CAN CONTROL NUMBERS WITH MY MIND

**WITH MY *MIND***

ahem. So. Yeah. It works. I've got a setup going that lets me control a number printing to my terminal

I would post a full schematic but I have no idea how one might make one of those, so I'll just describe
the pipeline.

- The devkit has these little sticky sensors and I stick one to my forehead
- The board is connected to a breadboard with the MCP3008 on it
- The MCP3008 is connected via 4 wires to the Raspi's GPIO pins using this breakout pin thing
  I bought from that same electronics store I mentioned a month ago
- The Raspi has a program on it that constantly reads values off of the MCP3008 over SPI
- It prints that to the terminal

---

I say "control". "Control" is a very generous word. I have a small amout of influence.

Basically if I relax the number goes down and if I concentrate the number goes up.

... Ugh. There's got to be a better way to do this. Like I hear about stuff like people with prosthetic
arms they can control like a flesh-and-blood arm, and this theremin thing you can play mentally, and
all this stuff. Meanwhile I'm over here making a number go up and down.

Maybe I'll just keep taking neuroscience classes. I hear they get up to some pretty cool stuff in
the higher level courses, like there's labs and stuff. Right now we're just writing papers.

---

It's late here. I'm tired and don't really have any other thoughts.

Oh actually, in class they mentioned there's an internship at some neuroscience company working on BCIs
I can apply to do over winter break! I should apply to that when I'm not so tired. Hopefully I get in.

Tomorrow at robotics club I'm not sure what I'll do. I guess I can show off my setup, or get a bunch
of electrodes reading.
